The topic in this video is else if ladder already in the previous video we have seen nested if.
so that extension of that nested if  is else if ladder.
So if you have more than one nested if
If then nested if is there again it's nesting if is there then it can be easily framed like a else
if ladder.
That is very easy for writing otherwise but many nested IF will create confusion for a programmer and
even the code will not be easily readable.
So let us see how you can frame
else if ladder for nested if so here is the skeleton given here.
Let us see this.
This is if condition, if true then, these are the flower bracket something whatever has to be
executed should be here.
Then else this is the else of this if
and inside this else again that is if statement.
So then you have if the very first statement as if I said that you can read here also.
So actually this is else separate if separate right.
So instead of writing it as a nested, I have written it along with else.
So yes you can write like this.
So that's call as
else if ladder. then if,
This is the block, and
For this if
this is the else,  yes that's what you should know, then this
If this is the else,
So this else belongs to last
If. so if I showed the skeleton for this one it looks like this.
If, it's just a rough sketch I'm giving you, then inside that Else is there.
This is else.
Then again if is there,  then for if, else is there I'm not writing it properly just giving
you the skeleton.
then inside this again if is there and it's own else is there.
So this is how the body.
So this is if inside else they again if-else is there, in else again if else is there.
So if you write like this it looks very congested.
So this is better.
This like a ladder.
So from here we can climb down down down.
so
that's why it is called as the
else-if ladder
Now let us write a program using this else if ladder.
So what is the program, i will explain you.
The problem is we will take a day number and will display day name will take a day number and display day
name means if day number is one.
Then we will say first a day off a week is Sunday right.
So Sunday if it is two we will say Tuesday.
If it is the three will say Wednesday like that I will write on the program code.
So far that already I have main function written here.
day variable is already there.
Enter day number
is there, then reading day, now here
I will write down conditional statements.
Remove this and write down.
If day is equal to one this has to be is exactly equal to one so equal the symbol is use.
Then here I will say cout Monday.
So in short I will write 'mon' and here endl means go to the next line.
So if  at all you require you can write that endl.
Otherwise you can skip it.
We are going to just play one day right not all days.
Then if day is not one, else then what
Again if, if day is equal to 2 then here I will print it is Tuesday.
So just I will write Tuesday.
That's all.
endl if you want you write down for the new line then if it is not a two also then else
If day is equal to 3 then hear cout wednesday. like this
We can go on writing.
At last we can write one else because this is continued and at last, last else.
Now for 1-7
I'll be writing the cases else we can say invalid day no.
At last.
See this is the I am writing continuation part so continue for three i have written, for four five six seven.
All you have to write on then after that cout invalid day
So this is the program.
One important thing.
How it works.
That we have to understand.
So that will help us to understand the next topic. how it works?
Let us see. if I give a day number one.
So it will come here and check.
It is days 1.
Yes true
So it will print Monday.
So it will not go into this.
else means it will not enter into all these things because this is the outermost else all these things
are inside this else right.
So it will not enter inside.
So just check this one.
It is true.
There is enough.
Next if you give the number as three then listen carefully.
It will check first.
Here you have given three right.
Three.
Next line is it 3
no go to
else
Is it three.
No.
goto else
is it a three?
Yes three.
So it will print Wednesday.
Then after that it will not go in the remaining else part.
For how many.
so how many if it has checked, one two three.
So after checking three if conditional statements we have found out that is Wednesday.
So work is more.
So it should directly goto to 3 and say wednesday.
No it's not go directly that it will check this one and this one and this one.
It means if I gave day number as 7 Yes it will check all seven conditions.
If I give invalid number then after checking 7 conditions it will say invalid number.
So this is too much.
It has to compare make compare a lot of conditions.
Yes in this  else if ladder it has to check all the conditions.
If your condition is lying at last.
So if I say how much time it takes means no. of comparision
If your number is bigger than more conditions will be checked.
If you get a smaller day number then few conditions will be checked.
All right.
So this is all we have studied about it.
OK so we have seen how it works.
So from this we can understand the number of comparisions are dependent on the value that you're giving
right.
So that's all in this topic.
So you can write down this program and you can test it so already there is a demo available and also coding
exercise is there for this one
for this one for this one.
So you have to write on these conditional statements.
OK.
These conditional statement if all these things.
So the same thing you can practice it in coding exercise.
And apart from this for other things are also given.
So you read question and you read the description of an exercise.
You can easily understand it and you solve that one also.
So that will give you confidence of writing your own code and for the same you can write on the program
by yourself also, then in the next video in the next topic.
Will find how is it possible to directly go on day number three without checking these two and directly
going on day number four without checking all other conditions.
So we will see that we will see a faster method in the upcoming topic.
That's all in this video.